Setup pass on multiple devices (#6)
snowiow/snow-dev.com: content/posts/setup-pass-on-multiple-devices.md

```

or just:

```sh
pass
```

Output:
```sh
Password Store
├── generated-password
├── mail
│   └── test.com
└── test
```

As you can see, this prints a nice tree of all the passwords we have created in 
this section.

## pass git commands

pass is tightly integrated with git. You could already see this when executing
one of the commands before. pass is always automatically creating a 
commit with a meaningful message for every operation we did. For example:

```sh
[master f71e270] Add generated password for generated-password.
 1 file changed, 0 insertions(+), 0 deletions(-)
 ```

Starting with `pass git` we are able to execute basically any git command on the
`.password-store` directory. We will use this knowledge to setup a remote repository for
our password store to be able to sync our passwords between different machines.

## Closing words on pass usage

Even though we didn't cover every possible pass command here, I hope you got a
grasp of how easy and straightforward it is to interact with your passwords via
the pass CLI. It also doesn't get much harder from here. If you are searching
for another functionality, you can view the pass man pages via:

```sh
man pass
```

> The manpage describes all the commands and arguments you can pass to them in a

Reviewer: Pun intended? :D

Author: Ich habe dich am Anfang gewarnt :joy: 
https://github.com/snowiow/snow-dev.com/pull/6/files#diff-f9d7dc025d2e2b383a0aceb022df9c00ee5c11b19db00f94bcf3ce90b1cdaa1cR93-R94

in detail, [how to setup a Git Server with your Raspberry
Pi](https://snow-dev.com/posts/build-your-own-git-server-with-a-raspberry-pi.html)

But you could even host your password store in a public GitHub repository if you
like. People would see the structure of your password store, but wouldn't be
able to see the actual passwords, because they can't encrypt them without your
gpg key. However I prefer to keep it completely private, but however you decide,
you just need the remote url of the repository to follow along.

When you have the remote url you can add it to your existing password store via:

```sh
pass git remote add origin git@address.com:snow/pass.git
```

Afterwards you should see the remote with:

```sh
pass git remote -v
```

```sh
origin	git@address.com:snow/pass.git (fetch)
origin	git@address.com:snow/pass.git (push)
```

If it looks the same, but with your remote address, you are now able to push
your current state to the remote:

```sh
pass git push origin master
```

Now that we have stored the password store to a remote repository, we can start
cloning it onto our other devices. Let's start with the MacBook.

# Syncing to another Machine

> Since Mac OSX and Linux both build onto Unix, the process is pretty

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Mac OSX and Linux both built onto Unix, the process is quite
```

> similar. Just replace `brew` with the package manager of your OS and you should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
similar. Just replace `brew` with your operating system's package manager and you should
```

sec  rsa4096/...
     created: 2021-04-07  expires: never       usage: SC
     trust: ultimate      validity: unknown
ssb  rsa4096/...
     created: 2021-04-07  expires: never       usage: E
[ unknown] (1). ...
Please note that the shown key validity is not necessarily correct
unless you restart the program.

(ins)gpg> quit
```

If you list your secret keys again, you should see the box `[ultimate]` in the
uid row instead of `[unknown]`.

Next we install pass via:

```sh
brew install pass
```

and we clone the repository to the `.password-store` directory in our `$HOME`:

```sh
git clone git@address.com:/pass.git ~/.password-store
```

and we are done already. You can list your password store with `pass`, get one
of our earlier created passwords with `pass test` and so on, like it was on our
original machine.

Since we started with a git repository on our second machine right away, every
change gets already committed automatically. Remember to push your changes to
the remote when you modify your password store and pull again from your other
devices. You can also automate the pushing and pulling by setting a CRON job

> for example, which pushes and pulls once an hour. This works surprisingly well

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that pushes and pulls e.g. once per hour. This works surprisingly well
```

already, because normally you don't work on all your devices in parallel. Even
if you should run into merge conflicts, you can use git's capabilities to either
rebase onto the HEAD or do a merge commit and be in sync again.

# Sync to a phone

To add new devices, you only need to setup these few steps:

1. setup the gpg key
2. clone your password-store repository
3. install the pass cli

> This is the same for setting up pass on a phone. However how you do each step is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the same for setting up pass on a phone. However, how you do each step is
```

---
title: Setup pass on multiple devices
author: Marcel Patzwahl
date: 2021-05-30

> description: "I recently started using a wonderfully simple password manager called pass. I wanted to check it out for a long time, but now I finally got some time and incentive to finally do so. Even though the web- and manpage are very helpful, I had to search quite a bit around to make it work between my phone and Laptop, so I wanted to streamline the process in this post. We will setup pass on an Arch Linux machine first and then sync our existing password store to a MacBook and an Android Phone. So without further ado let's get started!"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "I recently started using a wonderfully simple password manager called pass. I wanted to check it out for a long time, but now I finally got some time and incentive to finally do so. Even though the web- and manpage are very helpful, I had to search quite a bit around to make it work between my phone and Laptop, so I wanted to optimise the process in this post. We will setup pass on an Arch Linux machine first and then sync our existing password store to a MacBook and an Android Phone. So without further ado let's get started!"
```

Maybe.

Author: ne, ich optimiere ja nichts, ich führe ja nur die infos an einen ort zusammen

---

I recently started using a wonderfully simple password manager called
[pass](https://www.passwordstore.org/). I wanted to check it out for a long time,
but now I finally got some time and incentive to finally do so. Even though the
web- and manpage are very helpful, I had to search quite a bit around to make it

> work between my phone and Laptop, so I wanted to streamline the process in this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
work between my phone and Laptop, so I wanted to optimise the process in this
```

post. We will setup pass on an Arch Linux machine first and then sync our existing
password store to a MacBook and an Android Phone. So without further ado let's
get started!

# Installing pass
Installing pass should be as easy as:
```sh
your-package-manager install pass
```
for example in Arch Linux it's just:
```sh

> pacman -S pass

Reviewer: Well, we might need `sudo` as well. ;)

```
pass should be available in every major package manager.

Before we actually initiate the password store, we need a gpg key which is used

> to encrypt our passwords. To do this we do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to encrypt our passwords. To do this, we proceed as follows:
```

Don't `do` twice.

(ins)Email address: your.name@address.com
(ins)Comment:
You selected this USER-ID:
    "Your Name <your.name@address.com>"

(ins)Change (N)ame, (C)omment, (E)mail or (O)kay/(Q)uit? O
```

If everything worked out fine, you should now see your gpg key with:

```sh
gpg --list-keys
```

Output:
```sh
/home/snow/.gnupg/pubring.kbx
--------------------------------
pub   rsa4096 2021-04-11 [SC]
      0abcE883def59ghi422Dsggo1226C853FF98C17
uid           [ultimate] Marcel Patzwahl <my.name@address.com>
sub   rsa4096 2021-04-11 [E]
```

Now we are able to create our password-store with:

```sh
pass init 0abcE883def59ghi422Dsggo1226C853FF98C17
```

Here we explicitly pass the gpg key id to pass (this post will probably contain
a lot of these puns). This way it's set as the default key and we don't get
asked about the gpg key each time we encrypt/decrypt a password. If you forget
about passing the key id initially, you can also do this on an already existing
password-store. Then the gpg key is just applied to the existing store.

Finally we want to activate git for our password-store:

```sh
pass git init
```

Now our password-store is a git repository and every change will be a git

> commit (examples follow later). Git will be our primary tool to sync pass

Reviewer: ```suggestion
commit (examples follow later). git will be our primary tool to sync pass
```

Technically it is not a noun.

> between multiple devices and it actually works pretty great with the automatic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
between multiple devices and it actually works pretty well with the automatic
```

> commits pass does for us. But before we go into the synchronization, let's get

Reviewer: ```suggestion
commits pass does for us. But before we go into the synchronisation, let's get
```

Author: https://www.dict.cc/?s=synchronization

to know the basic usage of pass a little better.

# Basic Usage of pass

Even though this isn't an intro into the pass cli itself, we want to go through some
examples just to get a feel for this tool. 

## Create an existing password

```sh
pass insert test
```

> asks you twice about an existing password. This password is then stored as a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will asks you twice about an existing password. This password is then stored as a
```

file in the `.password-store` directory, which is encrypted via our gpg key we
created earlier. 

We can also store our passwords in a directory tree structure if we split the
names with a slash:

```sh
pass insert mail/test.com
```

This creates a `mail` directory in the `.password-store` directory and puts a
`test.com` file in it. This file again is encrypted with our gpg key.

## Create a password with more metadata

Often we don't want to only store a password, but also some additional

> information like the username and the URL of where the password belongs to. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
information like the username and the URL to which the password belongs. This
```

> is also pretty straight forward. We just pass the `-m` flag for a multiline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is also pretty straightforward. We just pass the `-m` flag for a multiline
```

> password. Let's try this by overriding the last password we added earlier:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
password. Let's try this by overwriting the last password we added earlier:
```

Just a personal feeling.

Author: https://www.dict.cc/?s=override

multiple lines. The first line is always only the password, followed by an
arbitrary number of `key: value` pairs, splitted by a colon. When you are done
press `CTRL+D` to save and exit. As we will see later, these additional fields
can be used by different pass clients, to directly open a url or also insert the
username in a form of a website.

## Generate a new password

You can also generate new passwords like this:
```sh
pass generate generated-password
```

Output:
```sh
The generated password for generated-password is:
6y<a\+57Eh&@L@@O6ax|MK";{
```

You can also pass `-n` to the generate command to generate a password without
symbols and add a number after the name to set the length of the generated
password.

## Showing and copying passwords

To show the test password we created earlier, you call:

```sh
pass show test
```

or only:

```sh
pass test
```

To also copy the password into your clipboard you pass the `-c` flag.

## Show all passwords in the password store

This is:

```sh
pass list
```

or just:

```sh
pass
```

Output:
```sh
Password Store
├── generated-password
├── mail
│   └── test.com
└── test
```

> As you can see, this prints a nice tree of all the passwords, we created during

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see, this prints a nice tree of all the passwords we have created in this section.
```

this section.

## pass git commands

pass is tightly integrated with git. You could already see this when executing
one of the commands before. pass is always automatically creating a 
commit with a meaningful message for every operation we did. For example:

```sh
[master f71e270] Add generated password for generated-password.
 1 file changed, 0 insertions(+), 0 deletions(-)
 ```

Starting with `pass git` we are able to execute basically any git command on the
`.password-store` directory. We will use this knowledge to setup a remote repository for
our password store to be able to sync our passwords between different machines.

## Closing words on pass usage

Even though we didn't cover every possible pass command here, I hope you got a

> grasp of how easy and straight forward it is to interact with your passwords via

Reviewer: ```suggestion
grasp of how easy and straightforward it is to interact with your passwords via
```

the pass CLI. It also doesn't get much harder from here. If you are searching

> for another functionality, you can show the pass man pages via:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for another functionality, you can view the pass man pages via:
```
